---
layout: post
title: Reserve Bank of India
abbrlink: bbcf0973895945aeb035b17980a3f827
tags: []
categories:
  - H8_T9OH8_Gen
  - artcles
  - ecnomy
  - bank
  - rbi
  - transactions
  - failed
date: 1728810098000
updated: 1728810098000
---

**Harmonisation of Turn Around Time (TAT) and customer compensation for failed transactions using authorised Payment Systems**

RBI/2019-20/67\
DPSS.CO.PD No.629/02.01.014/2019-20

September 20, 2019

All Operators and Participants of Authorised Payment Systems

Madam / Dear Sir,

Harmonisation of Turn Around Time (TAT) and customer compensation for failed transactions using authorised Payment Systems

Please refer to the [Statement on Developmental and Regulatory policies](https://www.rbi.org.in/Scripts/BS_PressReleaseDisplay.aspx?prid=46724) issued as part of Monetary Policy statement dated April 4, 2019 wherein it was proposed that the Reserve Bank would put in place a framework on Turn Around Time (TAT) for resolution of customer complaints and compensation framework across all authorised payment systems.

2\. It has been observed that a large number of customer complaints emanate on account of unsuccessful or ‘failed’ transactions. Failure could be on account of various factors not directly attributable to the customer such as disruption of communication links, non-availability of cash in ATMs, time-out of sessions, non-credit to beneficiary’s account due to various causes, etc. Rectification / Compensation paid to the customer for these ‘failed’ transactions is not uniform.

3\. After consultation with various stakeholders, the framework for TAT for failed transactions and compensation therefor has been finalised which will result in customer confidence and bring in uniformity in processing of the failed transactions. The same is enclosed as [Annex](https://www.rbi.org.in/CommonPerson/english/Scripts/Notification.aspx?Id=3074#AN) to this circular.

4\. It may be noted that :

- the prescribed TAT is the outer limit for resolution of failed transactions; and

- the banks and other operators / system participants shall endeavour towards quicker resolution of such failed transactions.

5\. Wherever financial compensation is involved, the same shall be effected to the customer’s account suo moto, without waiting for a complaint or claim from the customer.

6\. Customers who do not get the benefit of redress of the failure as defined in the TAT, can register a complaint with the [Reserve Bank - Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021](https://www.rbi.org.in/Scripts/BS_PressReleaseDisplay.aspx?prid=52549) (as amended from time to time).

7\. This directive is issued under Section 10(2) read with Section 18 of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 (Act 51 of 2007) and shall come into effect from October 15, 2019.

Yours faithfully

(P. Vasudevan)\
Chief General Manager

Encl. : As above

***

Annex

(Annex to Circular DPSS.CO.PD No.629/02.01.014/2019-20 dated September 20, 2019)

Harmonisation of Turn Around Time (TAT) and customer compensation for\
failed transactions using authorised Payment Systems

General Instructions covering the TAT :

1\. The principle behind the TAT is based on the following :

1. If the transaction is a ‘credit-push’ funds transfer and the beneficiary account is not credited while the debit to originator has been effected, then credit is to be effected within the prescribed time period failing which the penalty has to be paid to the beneficiary;

2. If there is delay in initiation of a transaction at the originator bank’s end beyond the TAT, then penalty has to be paid to the originator.

2\. A ‘failed transaction’ is a transaction which has not been fully completed due to any reason not attributable to the customer such as failure in communication links, non-availability of cash in an ATM, time-out of sessions, etc. Failed transactions shall also include the credits which could not be effected to the beneficiary account on account of lack of full information or lack of proper information and delay in initiating a reversal transaction.

3\. Terms like, Acquirer, Beneficiary, Issuer, Remitter, etc., have meanings as per common banking parlance.

4\. T is the day of transaction and refers to the calendar date.

5\. R is the day on which the reversal is concluded and the funds are received by the issuer / originator. Reversal should be effected at the issuer / originator end on the same day when the funds are received from the beneficiary end.

6\. The term bank includes non-banks also and applies to them wherever they are authorised to operate.

7\. Domestic transactions i.e., those where both the originator and beneficiary are within India are covered under this framework.

Harmonisation of Turn Around Time (TAT) and customer compensation for\
failed transactions using authorised Payment Systems

<table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="2"><span>Sl. no.</span></td><td rowspan="2"><span>Description of the incident</span></td><td colspan="2"><span>Framework for auto-reversal and compensation</span></td></tr><tr><td><span>Timeline for auto-reversal</span></td><td><span>Compensation payable</span></td></tr><tr><td><span>I</span></td><td><span>II</span></td><td><span>III</span></td><td><span>IV</span></td></tr><tr><td>1</td><td colspan="3">Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) including Micro-ATMs</td></tr><tr><td>a</td><td>Customer’s account debited but cash not dispensed.</td><td>Pro-active reversal (R) of failed transaction within a maximum of T + 5 days.</td><td>₹ 100/- per day of delay beyond T + 5 days, to the credit of the account holder.</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td colspan="3">Card Transaction</td></tr><tr><td>a</td><td><u>Card to card transfer</u><p>Card account debited but the beneficiary card account not credited.</p></td><td>Transaction to be reversed (R) latest within T + 1 day, if credit is not effected to the beneficiary account.</td><td>₹ 100/- per day of delay beyond T + 1 day.</td></tr><tr><td>b</td><td><u>Point of Sale (PoS) (Card Present) including Cash at PoS</u><p>Account debited but confirmation not received at merchant location i.e., charge-slip not generated.</p></td><td rowspan="2">Auto-reversal within T + 5 days.</td><td rowspan="2">₹ 100/- per day of delay beyond T + 5 days.</td></tr><tr><td>c</td><td><u>Card Not Present (CNP) (e-commerce)</u><p>Account debited but confirmation not received at merchant’s system.</p></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td colspan="3">Immediate Payment System (IMPS)</td></tr><tr><td>a</td><td>Account debited but the beneficiary account is not credited.</td><td>If unable to credit to beneficiary account, auto reversal (R) by the Beneficiary bank latest on T + 1 day.</td><td>₹100/- per day if delay is beyond T + 1 day.</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td colspan="3">Unified Payments Interface (UPI)</td></tr><tr><td>a</td><td>Account debited but the beneficiary account is not credited (transfer of funds).</td><td>If unable to credit the beneficiary account, auto reversal (R) by the Beneficiary bank latest on T + 1 day.</td><td>₹100/- per day if delay is beyond T + 1 day.</td></tr><tr><td>b</td><td>Account debited but transaction confirmation not received at merchant location (payment to merchant).</td><td>Auto-reversal within T + 5 days.</td><td>₹100/- per day if delay is beyond T + 5 days.</td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td colspan="3">Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (including Aadhaar Pay)</td></tr><tr><td>a</td><td>Account debited but transaction confirmation not received at merchant location.</td><td rowspan="2">Acquirer to initiate “Credit Adjustment” within T + 5 days.</td><td rowspan="2">₹100/- per day if delay is beyond T + 5 days.</td></tr><tr><td>b</td><td>Account debited but beneficiary account not credited.</td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td colspan="3">Aadhaar Payment Bridge System (APBS)</td></tr><tr><td>a</td><td>Delay in crediting beneficiary’s account.</td><td>Beneficiary bank to reverse the transaction within T + 1 day.</td><td>₹100/- per day if delay is beyond T + 1 day.</td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td colspan="3">National Automated Clearing House (NACH)</td></tr><tr><td>a</td><td>Delay in crediting beneficiary’s account or reversal of amount.</td><td>Beneficiary bank to reverse the uncredited transaction within T + 1 day.</td><td rowspan="2">₹100/- per day if delay is beyond T + 1 day.</td></tr><tr><td>b</td><td>Account debited despite revocation of debit mandate with the bank by the customer.</td><td>Customer’s bank will be responsible for such debit. Resolution to be completed within T + 1 day.</td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td colspan="3">Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPIs) – Cards / Wallets</td></tr><tr><td>a</td><td colspan="3"><u>Off-Us transaction</u><p>The transaction will ride on UPI, card network, IMPS, etc., as the case may be. The TAT and compensation rule of respective system shall apply.</p></td></tr><tr><td>b</td><td><u>On-Us transaction</u><p>Beneficiary’s PPI not credited.</p><p>PPI debited but transaction confirmation not received at merchant location.</p></td><td>Reversal effected in Remitter’s account within T + 1 day.</td><td>₹100/- per day if delay is beyond T + 1 day.</td></tr></tbody></table>
